So far, we've only been talking about
static routing, that basically this means
we know the name of the route that
we wanna go to ahead of time.
So therefore,
we can make a folder for it, but
what if you don't know the name of the
route that you wanna go to ahead of time?
What if it's like, slash this user's ID or
slash this blog post title?
And you just, it's dynamic,
you don't know the source of that
segment It can come from a database.
It can come from a CMS, it can come
from an API call, it's a dynamic route.
So we've already solved this, this isn't
new to Next.js, every router system has
the ability to use route params to be able
to say, this part of the URL is dynamic.
It's a parameter, that's nothing new,
so how do you show that in folders?
It's actually really cool, so
in order to like make something dynamic,
what we can do is we can
just make another folder.
Because every time you make a new
segment you have to make another folder.
So let's say in the case of docs
I want a documentation website,
that's like slash docs and
then everything after docs.
It could be anything,
I don't know what it's gonna be
cuz I haven't written a docs yet.
But I know it's gonna be the same layout,
it's just the content's
gonna be different.
So I just wanna make one component
that represents every single possible
documentation page that's
going to be generated.
But the URL I want to be different
depending on what page you're on.
So I can make that a parameter and
the way you can do that is you
can use the square brackets.
So I can say square brackets and then put
whatever name of parameter that I want.
So, in this case, I could put id,
I could put title, whatever you want,
so, let's just say we put id here.
So, I have a folder called id, and
then now I can go into the folder
itself and now make a page.tsx.
And now I'll have a Docs page,
is this one also called Docs page?
Yeah, actually, I'm just gonna copy
this one, just put it there, and
I'll just call this like Docs like ID page
or something, just to make it different.
So now because I have this dynamic route
parameter in here in my folder with
the square brackets, I'm able to route
to it with any arbitrary value, right?
So now I can go here and
I can say docs, not that,
the hux, and then let's see,
I can go there.
The original one loads up because I still
have a page here, so that loads up,
it's good to go.
But now I can go to slash literally
anything and that one loads up
to let me change the name of it so
you can actually see, this is the ID page.
There we go, so
now you can see we're on the ID page.
All right, and
it doesn't matter what value I put in
here after Docs because it's a parameter.
I can literally put anything here and
it'll still stay on this
page because it's dynamic.
So that makes sense?
All right,
every every router has this if you've ever
made anything with any back end language,
if you've ever configured a front end
router, it's pretty much the same thing.
It's just that you have this weird
thing here which you'll get used to,
I think, I hope so.
So remember you could put
whatever you want here and
what you put here is going to
determine what you access.
Cuz if you're gonna put something here,
I'm guessing you're gonna need
to do something with that.
This is why people put like IDs in URL
because it's some unique identifier that
they can use to then go fetch the data
necessary for that page, right?
Cuz if you think about it,
any page that's going to be
rendering on a dynamic route is
almost acting like a template, right?
Cuz it's gonna be the same page for
every single variation of
whatever this value is.
So, if I'm Facebook and I'm going
to slash profile slash user's ID,
we all have the same profile pages
that the data owner that is different.
So how does that page
know what data to fetch?
Well, that's why you put something unique
in the URL here so that you can grab and
then go get the data specifically for
that in this case user.
And then that way you can render
it inside of this template, so
you need access to that.
So the way you can do that is if the page
that you're on is underneath a dynamic
segment like this,
you get a prop called params.
And the params is an object
that's going to have properties
on it that are named the same as
the params you created in a folder.
So in this case,
params.id should show us the id parameter
that we passed into the route,
so let's check that out.
Oops, not here.
So you can see I have anything, cuz I
typed in anything, if I type in here,
you can see it says here, right.
So this is how the page becomes dynamic,
so now I can take that unique value and
go get some data with it, or
talk to a CMS, or make an API call.
Whatever I got to do to make sure
the thing that I'm showing on this page is
supposed to be for
this page that's matching this ID.
That makes sense?
Any questions on that?
>> Are multiple parameters allowed?
>> It's a great question, we're
getting into that right now, so yeah,
there's no questions on this.
So yeah, basically that let's say
you wanna have multiple parameters.
Let's say, actually all my
documentation pages are like
slash ID slash title or
something weird like that.
So then what I would do is I
would make a new folder in ID and
then I make this one dynamic and
I would call this one title.
Right, and then I'm just actually
just going to move this one up here.
So now I have the page inside of slash
ID slash title, both are dynamic.
And guess what,
I can still get access to both of those,
I can still say params.title, and still
have them here, and still be good to go.
But now, as you can see I get a 404
because there's no longer a page for
a slash ID.
So it's like,
I don't know what that is, so
I would have to go to
like slash here there.
And then now, I get that route that has
both of those parameters in it here there.
And you can do that forever,
you can just nest it.
So This is cool, but like maybe,
maybe I don't really care what
the slugs are because that's
not gonna change the design or
the layout of this page.
It's always gonna be the same no matter
what, how many paths come after docs.
I'm always gonna use the same page, so
there's a shortcut I could do cuz
maybe you have a variable URL.
Like maybe one URL might just be slash ID,
maybe another URL might be slash ID
slash title, maybe another URL slash
id slash title slash something else.
But it's regardless because you
still wanna show just this page,
you're still gonna show the same design.
The same layout, but just different
content, so instead of like trying
to account for those variable length URLs,
you can do a shortcut.
So I'll show you the shortcut, so I'm
just gonna just copy this component right
quick cuz I'm just gonna
delete this folder.
And this, what I'm making now is gonna
be part of the app we're working on.
That was most everything, whoa what,
okay, it dropped me in the next folder.
There we go, so this is the output,
I don't know why it always drops me here
when I delete things, it's kind of weird.
So now in the docs page, I'm going
to instead of having ID like this,
instead I'm going to do something like
I'm gonna put three dots in front of it.
So, by putting three dots in front of the
ID, let me zoom in on it so you can see,
so basically what this is saying is,
this is saying like,
this is called a catch-all route.
This means every route,
no matter how many segments,
after ID,
show this page I'm about to make.
Okay, so it's catching every single
segment every single route after ID.
And then I'm also I'm just gonna delete
this page TSX that I have in Docs cuz I
wanna demonstrate something, so
I'm just gonna delete this page as well.
So let's just say get out here.
Okay, and now inside of Doc slash this
catch all Id, I'm gonna make a new page.
Like that,
I'm just gonna paste this in here, And
no matter where I go as far as URL,
it should allow me to navigate with
one caveat, and we'll talk about that.
And then so you can see I went to docs
here there, I can go another, some more.
It doesn't matter, I can keep going and
it will always show this page, right and
this is a great use case for actually
something like a documentation page.
I actually think this is what Nextjs
does for their documentation page.
If you just look at the segments in the
URL, they're like, variable and length.
Some are two segments, some are four
segments, some are five segments,
but the page is exactly the same.
Nothing ever changes except for the
content that's in this middle lane here,
so more than likely I would imagine
they would have just set up.
A catchall route like this for
their documentation versus make
one folder that has one segment.
Make another folder that has two segments,
make another folder and
then they're all the same exact component.
Why would you do that?
So you would probably just do it this way.
The one caveat though is that like
now what if I just wanna go to docs?
I can't just go to docs anymore, right?
But I can go to anything here, so
to also make it inclusive to go to
the segment that you're currently
on before the dynamic segment.
You can change this bracket dot dot
to be double bracket, like that.
So if you put two brackets around it, now
it's inclusive and it will include docs,
so it'll show this page if someone
just goes to docs as well.
So now I can just go to docs or
should be able just to go to docs and
that loads up as well.
So again, a really good use case for this
is I have variable length segments that I
don't wanna have to write a folder for
every single time.
Because one maybe I don't know how many
the variation between those lens or
two is just a lot of work.
And then also even if I did do that,
they're all literally the exact same
page with the exact same styling.
The only thing different between them
is the content that's rendered, so
save yourself some time you can just
make one component that represents every
possible segment.
In this group, without having to account
for all of them, wanting to demonstrate
what the parameters look like when
you are inside of a catch all route.
So if you go to the, in my case
the page inside of the dynamic segment
that I have here with ID and
you were to just look at the params.
If you were to log this,
because they're not named, right?
They're variable length,
you only have one name and that's ID, but
you might have variable length.
So how do you represent that,
how do you see that?
So let's just see what happens when
I just do docs with no parameter,
you can see that it's
just an empty object.
Then if I add just one for like, what
represents the ID so like, here is the ID,
you can see that I have something
called ID and it's an array.
And that's the, here's the ID, that's
the first parameter but then the more that
I add, What ends up happening is that it
just gets put into that ID array, right?
So that's a little different than before
where we had two different segments where
we had like ID and then we had title.
Those were two different keys
in the parameters object.
When we do a catchall,
it's always gonna be in that that key for
whatever you called it.
In this case id, and
it'll just be an array in the order
in which the segment came, right?
So it was this slash this slash
this slash this slash this, so
that's how you would get that information.
Yeah, cool,
other thing I forgot to mention is
when it comes to your Node version.
Make sure you're at least on Node version
18 in order to run some of these features,
seems like 20 also works,
which is the latest version.
18 is a current LTS or
lifetime support version, so
at least on 18 to get some
of these things to work.
If you're on any version before that,
cannot guarantee that any of
this stuff will work, if I got think you
have to use 18 according to the next docs.
If you don't know how to switch versions
with Node, I highly recommend checking
out the intro to Node.js course that we
have here, where I do talk about that.
But TLDR, you can use something
called NVM, which stands for
Node Version Manager, which allows you
to switch versions of your Node back and
forth pretty easily.
You can use that to download and
install and
switch to any version
of Node that you want.